Sarah Hofmeyer: Great. Well, I've kind of been starting these interviews by just kind of trying to get to know each other, and I wanted to ask first how your interest in food systems kind of sparked and grew for you personally and professionally.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): Yeah, I think
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): like going way back, My interest in food systems probably started just growing up with a mom who gardens and had.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): Yeah, we we were always rolling food, and she she also ran a flower business out of a kind of backyard farm garden, selling at the local farmers market.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): So
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): that was just kind of part of our family culture. She also.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): I I grew up in Fairfield, Iowa, which is a small town in southeast Iowa. Are you familiar with their field
Sarah Hofmeyer: southeast? No; but I'm. From the exact opposite part of the State Northwest Iowa.
Sarah Hofmeyer: So I just had to quick thing for a second if I ever ever been there. But I don't think so.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): Okay, it's a unique little small town where there is a lot of interest in sustainable agriculture and
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): organic food at a time that that wasn't like a popular trendy thing, so
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): which she. We had some family friends that ran a Csa farm, and she would help out with that. So she always believed that
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): part of our health care as
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): a family was eating, eating local food, fresh food, organic.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): so
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): that that's like the root of of lion, care about and work in this, and then I went to Grinnell College.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): Okay.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): So when I was there it was a time when there was a lot of interest in
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): local food
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): generally. So there was a campus garden and and different
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): there. There was an eco house that there was just like a lot of opportunities to plug into kind of
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): different local and sustainable agriculture thing, so that I think I just kind of naturally based on my background. Gravity gravitated towards
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): doing as much as I could to integrate food into my my college. Yes.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): and then I, When I was at Cornell I did an internship with cultivate Kansas City at the time. It was Kansas City Center for urban agriculture. I spent a summer in Kansas City and just really loved the organization and the work, and it just
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): me made sense for me. based on that that family
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): background I should mention. We also, as part of our my mom's flower business at the farmers market kind of evolved into also doing prepared food sales at our little farmers market in town. So we
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): would
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): buy seasonal produce from the different vendors, and make sandwiches and wraps and process all and stuff so like
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): all through middle and high school, my sister and I. That was our
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): our summer summer little business income, too. So so it's just.
Sarah Hofmeyer: I can really remember. Yeah, make some a local vegetarian sushi, and that's awesome. Honestly, also, just coming from Iowa. That's really neat, too, because it's such a highly industrialized tag state
Sarah Hofmeyer: to be doing organic at that period in time. And that kind of interest that's awesome. Yeah.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): yeah. Are you familiar with hairfield at all? No. At this point i'm like, I gotta Google this later. Yeah, you'll find some weird stuff. It's the home of transcendental meditation, a transcendental meditation based community.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): So about a third of the population of 10,000 has moved there to be part of this. a community of people who meditate. And there's a university based in that. And
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): yeah. So I went to a school for most of my life, where we meditated every day. But sort of part of that culture. Was this: like interest in organic food.
sustainability?
Sarah Hofmeyer: Yeah. And like food as prescription. In some way it sounds like the health care. That's so.
Sarah Hofmeyer: And what a nice
Sarah Hofmeyer: I was reading! Obviously on. Cultivate Casey's website about before they were. Cultivate Casey. So it sounds like you were there kind of at a a ground level point, almost.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): Yeah. So I I did an internship in 2,008 for the summer, and then I came back in 2,010 after I graduated
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): and worked in a
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): like, probably 3 or 4 different job titles between 2,010, and the end of 2,016, and then I left. I was just. I had been there for a long time
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): straight out of college.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): was ready to try some different things ended up working in a community development nonprofit in Kansas City more environmentally focused nonprofit and campus city, and then
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): just started that about a year and a half ago.
Sarah Hofmeyer: Me
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): So
Sarah Hofmeyer: so
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): at food systems are just my passion and and I
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): it. It was a I had an opportunity to to go back in that direction, and it was a good time.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): That's not true. It wasn't a good time, but it was what I was more excited about
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): that. Then the rolling was in at the time. So
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): yeah, that's the
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): you know. I'm super Well, that's fine. Also another like element of my my work in food systems is I founded Long Fellow Farm, which is a neighborhood farm.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): It's all volunteer rooms, including
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): my involvement from the beginning.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): So in my spare time I
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): organize and have for
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): will be our ninth season.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): a community run farm.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): just a couple of block block from my house. and it's land that our Neighborhood association owns.
Sarah Hofmeyer: I was just going to ask. So how did the land come to be?
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): Yeah, it's. The neighborhood worked to
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): get some apartments that were in really rough shape, torn down, and then
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): it was sold to a developer that didn't just that kind of abandoned the project in 2,008, when everything crashed, and then the neighborhood worked to get the land back, and
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): and I moved into the neighborhood in 2,014 that had just been sitting
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): as kind of community green space that wasn't really being used.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): So we started at a neighborhood farm. That's awesome. Where is that in Kansas City then? Or
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): yeah, it's at thirtieth and Harrison in midtown, Kansas City.
Sarah Hofmeyer: That is really neat.
Sarah Hofmeyer: I've been so excited to talk to you, because from what like little Internet searching and creeping, I've done it like
Sarah Hofmeyer: your experience is exactly what i'm really interested in hearing about, which is kind of how
Sarah Hofmeyer: some of the policies around Urban AD kind of changed and shifted, or how they haven't.
Sarah Hofmeyer: and where, if there's any burden that's associated with those policies for urban farmers just trying to learn about that and see
Sarah Hofmeyer: because I've talked to a lot of
Sarah Hofmeyer: I I know I I've talked to several people who have said bits and pieces about their being burden in municipal policy toward growing food in the city. But a fair amount of them have actually said that it's improved quite a bit
Sarah Hofmeyer: because of cultivate cases work. And so not only were you there during the period and time where people have talked about these shifts being made. But you run a farm to this day, so I would love to hear more about
Sarah Hofmeyer: historically how you've seen that change or not change.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): Yeah. So you're just to make sure. I'm speaking exactly to what you're You're interested in that like the city donning codes.
That that type of stuff, is, it's the this area.
Sarah Hofmeyer: yeah, like running into the city and county regulations, and both in terms of like your experience as a farmer, but also, maybe in those various positions. How you've heard about others experiences.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): Yeah. So okay, Kansas City of Kansas City, Missouri did change zoning codes in 2,010. And that was right around when I was back at the where it had like kind of just gone through the big push
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): to get that changed when I started back
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): or started that hopefully, Kansas City full time
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): that came about. Do you know much about how that came about? Or do you want that?
Sarah Hofmeyer: I have heard bits and pieces about.
Sarah Hofmeyer: Yeah, yeah, a few different people. But please, as if I didn't know I would love to hear.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): But you know okay? Well, what so what I know is that that she was running into issues running a Csa out of the backyard
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): farm in a residential area. Neighbors, we're complaining about the traffic and the the business use in a residential area. The it the farmer used in a residential area.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): And so that was kind of this for for
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): working on the zoning codes. so based on the context of
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): why and how that came about, and the time I, my understanding that there was a lot of opposition from realtors and and some some city council saying, like, you know.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): urban farms are destroying property values, and you know this is, we can't have this in our city. So
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): based on that opposition like there was over overall support for urban agriculture and making codes friendly. But but with the context of that opposition that codes were not as
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): strong as it could have been.
So it is
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): currently on the the of the Greater Kansas City food policy coalition
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): to revisit Kansas City, Missouri
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): Urban I
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): ordinances and continue to improve.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): So like there are still things that are like pretty restrictive around onsite sales of
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): okay
produce.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): There are
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): things that are still pretty restrictive, or require burden around like access accessory structures
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): like having to.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): even if they're more temporary and like
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): off the record, a lot of farms just like
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): build things that are more temporary, high tunnels and
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): wash stands or put in and sort of shed
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): that without going through the
for channels.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): Yeah, I've heard a lot of the ask for goodness later. So off the record. Not not voted to me. That's definitely an approach, and that's an approach with onsite sales, too. I mean some of the most
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): visible urban farms are
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): doing things that are absolutely not allowed under the current coordinates.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): and everybody loves them, and it's great. And let's change the ordinance before it becomes an issue for them. It's kind of the
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): what we're hoping to do over the next year or 2 with the
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): greater chasing.
Also collision.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): I assume you've talked to Andrea.
Sarah Hofmeyer: Yeah, I had an internship at Kc. Healthy kids for a summer when I was kind of, I think we might have it's just been so long it was like 2020. It was right during Covid. Okay, maybe not. And that's when I was out of
Sarah Hofmeyer: okay. I remember one of the urban farmers being Neil and
Sarah Hofmeyer: a few other people from Mark. But yeah, i'm not sure
it was.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): I was at bridging the gap of it. So
Sarah Hofmeyer: So it sounds like some of these examples. I'm kind of curious
Sarah Hofmeyer: what we're what was it like before? The more conference of zoning changes were made? It just like nothing was allowed by right basically at all.
Sarah Hofmeyer: or
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): I I don't first like totally No, because I was
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): like just getting started as it changed. But you my understanding is yes, like nothing was allowed by right
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): and
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): but kind of similar to how it still is like a lot of things we're happening.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): They just we're kind of under the radar. And
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): yeah, and and obviously like, then things would come up where it presented an issue for the farms.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): Okay.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): but that I mean, really, I think this kind of
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): based is when any any issues would come up.
Sarah Hofmeyer: That's what it sounds like.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): Now. Kansas City, Kansas is an entirely different
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): story.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): as our like all the other, like one of the things that's really complicated about Kansas City area is there's Kansas City, Missouri, Kansas City, Kansas, and then, like
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): dozens of other tiny municipalities that all have their own regulations and zoning codes ordinances, so
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): i'm.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): We do have a spreadsheet that has kind of it hasn't been updated in a few years. But has
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): have you seen that?
Sarah Hofmeyer: That's I think that's what I worked on. I believe, when I was in turning, I went to, you know all the different surrounding suburb cities to their quotes of ordinances, and filled out spreadsheets. So I think it might be
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): it. It might be the same thing. It's like a planning and zoning
Sarah Hofmeyer: scorecard. Almost.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): Okay. huh? So you did it with Casey. How the kids
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): we're with. Okay. because I think cultivate has one that that was developed separately, but maybe it wasn't. Maybe it. It's yours.
Sarah Hofmeyer: and it's funny, because for my dissertation i'm going to use the 2,020 version to potentially refill out to see if there have been changes, and also to have as control variables for me. So it might be updated soon.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): Okay. Great: yeah. Yeah.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): Yeah, as far as I know.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): But I I don't know all the municipalities like Probably not much has changed, especially in like particular timeframe, and the focus is
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): of local governments. It's been very much
Sarah Hofmeyer: Covid focused. And
yeah.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): that's what else. Not urban agriculture.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): Yeah. So
Sarah Hofmeyer: So I wanted to go back and ask you a little bit more.
Sarah Hofmeyer: I, too, have heard about the onsite sales and accessory structure issues with
Sarah Hofmeyer: It's not considered in code at all, where yes, you can grow the produce, but you can't add value. You can't sell it. You can't have volunteers so like you effectively can't
Sarah Hofmeyer: potentially do the things you need to do to run your farm.
Sarah Hofmeyer: But i'm kind of curious. Are there any other areas that you've heard
Sarah Hofmeyer: just from other people's experiences being burdensome.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): Yeah, okay.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): thinking about.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): If I
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): there are a number of graduates from the new routes for refugees program who have wanted to keep chickens
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): and
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): basically any special they need a special use. Permit to do that.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): even if it's under. And I don't know the designated number in why not county, but I could find out.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): But even for that they need especially use for me.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): and the process to get a special use permit is the same for
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): 20 chickens as it is, for, like a variance on the massive building. So a huge amount of paperwork going to public holding public meetings, maybe
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): going to community meetings. Apparently one of the farmers had to like stay at a meeting until midnight
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): to like get
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): his special use permanent for his handful of chickens.
Sarah Hofmeyer: I
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): So that's a a particular one that brought up a lot within our
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): new routes team, but similar
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): for construction of it, like high tunnels or or other accessory structures that they require that that same special use permit process. So we, as as an organization building at the gym for Gardens training farm and
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): working with a lot of the refugee farmers who have purchase land or found land and are are developing their own farm sites.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): I haven't been the person working directly with them through that process. So this is all kind of second hand from from other staff members.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): but
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): the the that special use permit process. It's. It's almost like there's different. They're seeing different directions on the website than they're hearing from
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): city staff that they're working with and it's just a very confusing and complicated process.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): especially if you don't speak English. You don't understand the systems. Oh, yeah.
Sarah Hofmeyer: that that's what I was going to ask you about is, what is that like for them being refugees and having that be their position in the encounter.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): I say I mean everything that I
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): No, we like we have had stuff
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): working through that process with them with translators
Sarah Hofmeyer: awesome.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): so that
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): I don't want to say it's it's good that we're able to do that.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): but
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): that we need to do that so
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): especially for and for things like
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): 20 chickens. Could there be a streamline process that you, even if they still need a special use. Permit the process. That's
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): because
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): similar to what I said about
Well.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): this process doesn't make. We're just gonna
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): do some do what we need to do. Alright. So
Sarah Hofmeyer: so it sounds like, Cultivate Casey works, I I mean, within the region, so that's wine Dot County and Kansas City, Missouri. Are there any other like striking examples from in the area
Sarah Hofmeyer: to come to mind?
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): I know we worked with some people in independence
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): around the high tunnel. I that was
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): my predecessor in this position that worked with that that farmer. So I don't have the details of that, but I know it was a
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): process to get get approved. And then
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): that same pro was running into issues with just like
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): codes, inspectors. as far as the condition of the
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): at the site. That was
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): last summer I was in communication with him, but it's
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): and and I would say, that's again more of a complaint based
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): like a lot of urban farms could in theory get still get in trouble on
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): codes inspections, especially where there is a lack of understanding and familiarity with like
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): what is native, edible, landscaping look like what is a a farm. but like the neighborhood farm, I've run also got in trouble. We got it
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): citation for like the rank leads over
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): 24 inches, or whatever 8 inches.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): and it was like right after the first freeze.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): Everything
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): like had just died, and it was a neighbor that was pissed off because there were homeless people sitting at our picnic tables.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): and they just wanted to. Fortunately that May group is out and is long gone, and I like, called
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): the Codes inspector on the letter like 10 times, and never heard that, and then it just kind of went away.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): so I don't know it's just like
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): there is a big. and we never would have gotten that. That letter had a neighbor not complained.
Sarah Hofmeyer: Yeah. right. That kind of attitude is what drives the city coming out to see
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): what's happening.
Sarah Hofmeyer: Did you have any
Sarah Hofmeyer: any other issues while you were kind of getting that started.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): or, you know, constructing a fence, or when you're starting to with your cell phone, which
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): for better or worse, there's no fence
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): I we got. I mean the biggest.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): A I'm expense for any startup is installing water. Fortunately, Casey Mo has a Grant program
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): funded through the city of Kansas City's Water Department that supports farms and gardens with water access.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): So that's a huge asset for Kansas City, Missouri. It's not available in Kansas City, Kansas. or other areas.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): Okay. at the time that that program started.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): why not? Counting also started one. It was like H. 2 to grow in that county, and
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): Casey grow, in case, you know.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): But after a few years the h 2 over growing
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): what Co. Stopped, and I don't know why I don't. I think they started as a pilot, and for whatever reason to continue it.
Sarah Hofmeyer: it's interesting.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): So that's a little bit different. Then. then, very like
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): policy berries, but still something that
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): needs to be considered around urban agriculture.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): How can cities support that water access?
Sarah Hofmeyer: Exactly. I've heard so much about the water and land access to, and just as a little clarification. I definitely am interested in it because
Sarah Hofmeyer: I'm. There are the barriers for sure that i'm interested in, but also I want to know what farmers go through when they encounter government, and how it creates burden, how learning about something.
Sarah Hofmeyer: learning about the requirements complying with it the psychological toll. It puts on people so all of those examples are just laid in with it, and it's really it's interesting to me, and it's the kind of thing that.
Sarah Hofmeyer: not having thoughtful policy creates, even in the case of like Kansas City, where
Sarah Hofmeyer: they
Sarah Hofmeyer: did do more, enabling zoning code. But there's still these little hiccups that become big hiccups for people.
Sarah Hofmeyer: Yeah, and it's definitely
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): Yeah, the the psychological tool is Yes. important. And yeah. i'm glad you
about that.
Sarah Hofmeyer: Yeah, I would like to talk more with.
Sarah Hofmeyer: I'm, hoping to talk more with farmers to hear more about their experiences. But
Sarah Hofmeyer: if you have any other
Sarah Hofmeyer: examples and thoughts around like psychological costs, that I would love to hear what you think.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): Yeah, I need to think about that a little bit. So another
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): I mean, land access is obviously an a major issue as well.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): I don't know if you've seen, cultivate is currently in the process of dealing with
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): relocation of our Westport Commons farm.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): because the developers are planning. Have you seen that
Sarah Hofmeyer: I saw that you were moving it? But I didn't know why
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): I mean Essentially it is privately held property. And
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): we have a 25 year lease, but it has a relocation clause in it.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): So
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): yeah.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): So the developer plans to build apartments, and when I send you a a link to this article that just came out. It's there. So what we were in the City Plan Commission Meeting this week.
closing
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): the the amendment that they need to go through.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): but I mean so. This is like I don't want to speak to you to it too much, because it's like still very active and up in the air.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): but
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): just that kind of walking the line between.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): We have to work with the developers because there are landlords, and we need them to honor their
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): agreement in the least to help
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): pay for some of the relocation costs.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): Oh, and
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): we need to consider. The best interest of the organization. Is that just
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): making the decision to move now versus by and
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): not know if we're gonna stay, we go and then make it potentially harder to leave.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): So so the
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): amendment that the developer was requesting past the City Plan Commission
forward to
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): there was some good, and and it's a particularly complicated case, because it was the school
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): building that had to go through a a public
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): process to decide who got the right to purchase it. I don't know if you're familiar with that whole process. But
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): basically cultivate was a big part of the vision that was sold to the community
Sarah Hofmeyer: for the developers to be able to purchase that building.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): but after few years, then the school district releases all the restrictions from the site. and now they're
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): so. It's like it's more complicated than just like cultivate losing the family. And
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): yeah, and our only
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): so
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): it's a very active
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): situation where we're dealing with at the moment. And Don't
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): totally know what the next steps are, as far as how much
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): we're going to put into fighting to stay on that land or not.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): But there might be opportunities to show up at city council meetings in the next couple of weeks.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): So i'm thinking about like, what is
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): what is our response to this situation mean for other urban farmers that
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): will find themselves in similar situations. As the city continues to develop and trying to be like. Well. we would go out and fight for another farm.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): Do we need to fight for for our own farm, too, like
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): so I don't know how to like.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): I probably said more than I should say about the situation. So I will quote you on anything. I'm. Just it's interesting to hear about
Sarah Hofmeyer: how those processes bring together so many different, like categories of actors like developers like you're saying in realtors, what was the
Sarah Hofmeyer: so going to like the City Commission meeting or planning commission meetings? Not just maybe this individual and you're talking about. I'm sure you've been to others and had to deal with cities and a lot of different
Sarah Hofmeyer: ways.
Sarah Hofmeyer: What is the sense you get
Sarah Hofmeyer: of their appreciation, value, knowledge about urban agriculture, and what food does in the city
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): or for people in the city. I guess I think it's a really mixed bag.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): So, speaking specifically to this
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): City Plan Commission Meeting. there were 6
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): Commissioners present for the case
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): to a post like we're in support of us, for
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): we're yeah supported to approve this.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): There we were different reasons for that. Some of it was like
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): one of them was not necessarily like. I think the farm should be here, or it wasn't necessarily about the urban agriculture as much as it was about the
which of the developers.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): and that the intention of the school district
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): releasing those restriction was wasn't.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): They saw that there was a 25 year lease in place, and they thought that was sufficient to protect them
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): when they release that restriction. So that was kind of his position. Another one was very clearly like thoughtful about climate change, and that the city has these climate, action, plans, and
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): green space is important to that. So
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): I think he was looking through that lens and and seeing more value in in the green space.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): And the so it was. It was mixed.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): and I don't and I think others were more like
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): Well, this isn't the the least agreement is not what we're looking at.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): That's not our place to comment on. It's
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): this bigger picture of land use, and and
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): even within that, like they're they're choosing sides.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): and also like what it. What do we have? The the right to
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): to decide on as a city Plan commission?
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): No.
Sarah Hofmeyer: What
Sarah Hofmeyer: of those people who were in opposition? What were some of their justifications or reasoning
Sarah Hofmeyer: like? Obviously, you said the thing the thing about. you know this is this part isn't our issue to comment on. But is it just the sense that we want this economic development in the form of whatever building they're going to construct.
Sarah Hofmeyer: or
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): I I think that was primarily it.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): I mean it. Yeah, I kind of assume, if I didn't want to, just in case someone had a more nuanced opposition.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): Not really.
Sarah Hofmeyer: Yeah.
Sarah Hofmeyer: Okay.
Sarah Hofmeyer: So I guess
Sarah Hofmeyer: I want to shift a little bit and kind of move backward and ask about the different hats you've played or put on at Cultivate, Kc: You mentioned that you've had a few different job titles. Have you worked in like pretty different capacities?
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): Yeah. So I started out in like
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): the
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): this is program assistant, just like general, whatever
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): whatever needed to be done and that evolved into like community outreach coordinator. and then communications and outreach manager, and and both of those roles we're doing a lot of
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): event planning like I don't know if you ever were familiar with the urban ground tour. It was a big tour of farms and gardens.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): so I plan to that for many years between like 2010, and 20,
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): 15
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): then, and then a lot of volunteer management.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): all the for I'm not doing
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): that now. Social media. Newsletters website a lot of that stuff in my first, and then
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): the last year I was at Cultivate.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): I was. I was focused on this Westport project before it became the West Part Commons farm, like. We knew we were moving in that direction, and I was doing community outreach and engagement
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): so like. build that support for that site, and like build a vision for that site. So it's like particularly
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): discouraging to me to see where we are now.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): So that was
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): 2,016. Yeah.
Sarah Hofmeyer: Can you tell me a little bit more about what that was like working on the ground and getting that going.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): I went so
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): honestly. It was like before the lease was signed, and, like
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): it, everything was a lot slower than it was supposed to be from the sale with the school district going through to like
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): at least like the lease agreement didn't end up getting signed until like end of 2,017, or maybe even 2,018. So it was 2,017, and then we started growing there in 2,018.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): So I see. So I was. This was 2,016. I was doing this work so honestly like they were building out the the
the Thex Pod office space where we were supposed to move.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): and then
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): 2
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): like it just wasn't moving. So I was spending a lot of time like we we were like in a temporary office space out of pilgrim chapels like little annexed office space.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): We're trying to find nearby office space because they were going to charge us too much rent big in the building, even though we were
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): okay. It was just like it was really messy.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): and so there was like that aspect of it. And then a lot of like the on the ground work that's going to community association meetings like
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): drawing a mile radius around that site and finding schools, finding businesses, finding
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): neighbors that we're excited about this
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): and showing up and talking to them about about the vision and getting their input
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): I sa all that, and and like we were working with the design firm to do this. This farmly on site layout.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): everything changed.
and and I just. I was burned out on the whole project. By the
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): end of 2,016. I was also kind of
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): just ready for
for a change. And then the fact that
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): moving at that time
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): needed a break.
Sarah Hofmeyer: Yeah.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): and that's when you said you did. We worked at this environmental nonprofit for a while.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): I actually took about a year of like doing some random stuff, and then
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): yeah work. And then I I got really through my work with one telephone got really involved with the Neighborhood Association and more kind of community development
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): neighborhood organizing.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): So I worked for an organization community capital fund for almost 2 years.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): and then went to bridging the gap.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): and that went back to
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): that total time away was almost 5 years.
Sarah Hofmeyer: And so now what does like a day in your life at work look like
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): It's different every day
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): like this afternoon. I'm. On the Steering Committee for the through Policy Coalition. So have a meeting with them a lot of meetings with partners.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): and I'm. Part of a lot of different coalitions like the growing growers program
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): sit on the coordinating team for that. So on the steering committee for through policy quotient. i'm on the point. They're all different names coordinating team for the regional food systems partnership program.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): And then
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): I i'm kind of shifting roles from more direct T, a. 2 more. and a strategy and partnership for the organization.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): So
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): I but i'm still because we haven't rehired for for that direct tag role. I'm still.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): But we're seeing our Mini Grant program overseeing our cooperative orders
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): a lot of kind of direct support to growers.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): So i'm a little all over the place.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): but trying to focus more on on
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): policy and systems and
partnership.
Sarah Hofmeyer: Nice. That's exciting. It sounds really fulfilling like you have. You get to work with the farmers and work on the policy side.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): Yeah. yeah.
Sarah Hofmeyer: when you're thinking about
Sarah Hofmeyer: policy. Sorry. I know this is a challenging question because we've talked about how every little municipality has their own policies.
Sarah Hofmeyer: Have you seen?
Sarah Hofmeyer: Have you seen any meaningful shifts in any of the other towns or cities surrounding Kansas City.
Sarah Hofmeyer: like what Kansas City, Missouri's done, or interest toward that in some of these coalitions.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): I don't know this like specifically. I just haven't gotten
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): in the last year since I've been back
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): that hasn't been a focus. Yet
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): why not? County is for sure our next as an organization. The next place, we want to work, and we're we have a planner that's on board
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): to to work on stuff, but I think they've just had a lot transition, and they're trying to integrate it into more of a comprehensive plan.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): and that's just not moving quickly.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): So the things have been kind of stalled out.
Sarah Hofmeyer: Do you get the sense that city planners
Sarah Hofmeyer: have that value for urban Ag. In a in a way.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): I would say city
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): planners do more than
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): but
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): it's I i'm at this point where I just i'm feeling pretty cynical about like developers are just gonna do what they're gonna do, and it doesn't matter what planners
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): and what community fights for, and and so like there can be all these plans, and you can even have commissioners in place. You can like
It's just like well Developers still run, especially in
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): nobody's been willing to stand up to them. I mean, Casey, tennis is doing a lot of organizing.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): standing up to developers and around more around housing.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): Yeah.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): We've had a little bit of that in Lawrence as well. So it's just this this like I i'm just feeling particularly simple right now. So
Sarah Hofmeyer: I would be feeling that way, too. Given
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): neighborhood organizing work to
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): been involved in like.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): There is a truce overlay in Kansas City, so it this section of troops, the neighborhood. Associations on
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): either side of that worked really hard to come up with this vision and guidelines and got it passed. So it's like
that overlay plan.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): so it overrides like zone, like developers. Ha! Are legally required to comply with
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): the design guidelines and outlined in this place. and I was president of the Neighborhood Association
and ended up being on that.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): Call it the Truth Coalition. Am I getting the names right
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): for that? Oversees
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): overlay?
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): So I but it's like
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): developers are supposed to come to the
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): we're supposed to review and make sure all their plans. Comply with this overlay, and, like they just do everything they can to get around it
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): it. So it's just like seeing that, like having that lens. And then there was another big push along truce for
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): neighborhood and community input on developing this particular block.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): and then the developer is just do whatever they want like.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): So I don't know.
and that's not really speaking to any any particular question. But
Sarah Hofmeyer: but it's a really important factor. It sounds like
Sarah Hofmeyer: like the developer wants to do versus anything else.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): Yeah.
Sarah Hofmeyer: Well, i'm sorry to
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): really bring out your inner. I like you back and forth between feeling like this work is so important. We have to fight and like, what's the point.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): Yeah.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): So yeah.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): I've heard similar to the point.
Sarah Hofmeyer: Yeah, absolutely. I've heard similar sentiments from people who they don't really work so much in the policy side. They work more in like trying to get farms
Sarah Hofmeyer: out of the red, or trying to like scale up to the point where the local or regional food system is making money, and they, you know, just
Sarah Hofmeyer: it feels impossible, like such an uphill struggle constantly. So
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): yeah, I would. This is like another layer of policy
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): more on the kind of Federal programs.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): So we
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): been hearing a lot from like the Usda, the Nrcs and the Fsa.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): Like on a national level. There's this the new office for urban agriculture, and they're really pushing Urban Ag as a priority throughout the agency.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): And so these agencies like
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): know that they. They need to be working with urban farmers.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): and are reaching out to organizations like us to
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): like. Start those conversations. but they're still like.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): So last week we hosted a workshop ABC's of Usd. And me with
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): and you extension like creates the program, but wanted to partner with us. So it's
presentations from Nrcs
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): episode.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): and this is like the target audience is urban farmers that they're They know they're coming in and talking to.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): and they're still using examples from row, crop agriculture they're still using like
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): like they they haven't other. The field staff on the ground like are not able to make
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): that mindset switch. And they're talking about Zoom Phone programs. And
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): so I think there's a really big opportunity. And like i'm feeling that, and seeing that to like start shifting like tiny drops of Federal resources that really would make a big impact in the viability of some of these urban farms and smaller scale.
Sarah Hofmeyer: Yeah.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): but it's just like how how to get these programs to a point where people can actually use them, and people can actually access that money. So I think there is a big opportunity
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): on
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): that we're starting to focus more on
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): a member of the national Sustainable Agriculture Coalition this year. which has been really great to
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): to have more feel like there's more of a direct
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): pathway to like have a voice. And
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): in that Federal policy where we're not like actually
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): doing the work. But we're like providing input to people who are who are having most
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): direct meetings on a daily basis. Total.
Sarah Hofmeyer: that's really exciting, too, because it's early enough. And I mean, I guess it's been several years now with the office of Urban Ag and innovative production, or whatever. But
Sarah Hofmeyer: it's early enough that it's really exciting that they might get the the information resources to
Sarah Hofmeyer: shift their programming in a way that is more meaningful to urban farmers based on what you know and
Sarah Hofmeyer: national sustainable egg coalition are doing.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): Yeah. So
Sarah Hofmeyer: So this makes you wonder with Federal programs and Federal agencies.
Sarah Hofmeyer: Then my question is about Grants, because so often, you know you have to do the applying for the grant to hopefully get that, and then pro
Sarah Hofmeyer: an initiative might last only as long as the Grant goes all those types of issues. But
Sarah Hofmeyer: have you had the chance to apply for grants
Sarah Hofmeyer: through Federal agencies? And what has that process been like?
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): We have I? I don't do our ground writing so
so i'm very on the outside of it. But
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): cultivate has been fortunate to be in a position that, either through either as an organization or so, or
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): through partnerships like with Catholic cherries on the new routes for refugees program.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): We have gotten a a a good number of Federal grants. There's like beginning Farmer and Rancher Grants 2501 focused on socially farmers right now. We haven't
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): Nrcs cooperative agreement through another partner that wrote that Grant. We work on Federal Grants for our double up food books program Again, Another partner is writing that.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): So we
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): because we're a little bit bigger organization. We have been able to have access to Federal
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): grants, but those are targeted to nonprofits targeted to universities like more kind of
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): so funds are flowing to these institutions, but they're still not going like on the
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): like commodity crop. Agriculture resources are available directly to farmers on the smaller scale. The resources are available to organizations, but not directly to the farmers. In the same way.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): with the exception of like a few small things like
high time equip
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): current through cost shares for high tunnels.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): So I think that's that's one of the pieces that we're
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): We're trying to figure out how we these Federal funds in the same, in a similar way that they're going directly to commodity.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): How can you support economic viability of all scale farmers?
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): Yeah, is a big
question
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): absolutely.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): And and that's what I think a lot of the policy efforts are targeted at right now, because a lot of the programs are reimbursement based. So you have to be able to front the money.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): Do the project, implement the project and then wait for reimbursement from the Government
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): A lot of the programs it, even if farmers are eligible. But even smaller nonprofits
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): are.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): they also require matching funds. So you apply for a $100,000. Grant you have to be able to come up with $25,000,
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): 25 or 50, or even one to one match.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): So that creates a huge barrier in making them accessible.
Sarah Hofmeyer: Yeah.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): yeah things that we're
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): thinking about in us.
It's for
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): other organizations and direct to farmers like. Okay, it's great. If these programs are out here. But if the types of farmers we work with
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): can't actually use them like. how do we change that?
Sarah Hofmeyer: Yeah, Exactly. Exactly.
Sarah Hofmeyer: Did you work on? You said you mentioned that
Sarah Hofmeyer: you applied through the Kansas City Grant program for water for the long below.
Sarah Hofmeyer: What was that like for you?
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): That's a long time ago, but I actually now sit on the Review committee for that. Grant. So me I mean it's it's a more
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): straightforward application process than than any
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): it's designed for
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): small farms and gardens to be able to to do easily. But but there are still some
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): we need to make on.
But basically
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): either. So Kansas city community gardens administers that program.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): We are a support on the urban farm side, so either a garden or a farm can apply. They submit a request through Kansas City Community garden sites.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): If it's a farm it gets forwarded to me to do a water on it, so I have to go out. walk around the farm with them. talk about their meetings.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): and basically write up a recommendation of like, Should they get a new tap? Should they do consider rain water catch me like, what are what are different options?
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): So they have to get that water out of it and recommendation for them to apply. There's still, you know narrative questions. What are you doing?
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): They have to. It's from. And this is where I think we need like asking a farmer or a gardener to get multiple bids from plumbers
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): shouldn't seem that hard. But but
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): and they never respond, and they never show up when they say they're going to show up. So so that's one of the the areas that we're working on.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): Improving. The process is like
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): can.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): because we basically send out a list of recommended. But then it's still on the the individual from the to
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): to reach out.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): Would it make more sense to collect all the applications? Send them all out
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): to the same list of
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): commerce.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): All of them go detail level of detail. You probably don't need, but it it's something like i'm just trying to to find ways to make all of these processes
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): easier.
Sarah Hofmeyer: I really appreciate that. That's
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): what my discretion is really interested in.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): The compliance costs out. There are crazy. So I appreciate the attention of trying to reduce it.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): Have you heard about, or top to Greg Garbus
that's anybody?
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): No, I haven't
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): If you want an earful
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): about a good look.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): He likes to. He's had. He's had a really tough time.
Sarah Hofmeyer: Do you think you could send me his contact information so I could send him an email.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): He doesn't really respond to anyone else. So could I call you
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): I I i'm like what's that I I could text him for
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): I can give you my my phone number. Okay? Well, let me text him and see
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): is if he's willing to talk to you and then make a connection that'd be great. I was going to ask you as well if
Sarah Hofmeyer: and kind of starting with these interviews with public administrators or administrators of a sort, and trying to move on to
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): either surveys or interviews with urban farmers to get in that experiential level of the learning compliance, psychological cost that they encounter. So, part of you a lot I was going to ask because I
Sarah Hofmeyer: I've collected a lot of farm email addresses via all the directories that exist out there. It seems like a lot of people are coming together, which is really great to get those the list of where all the farms are located and whatnot. But I did want to ask you
Sarah Hofmeyer: if you'll be willing, you'd be willing to connect me with anyone who might have a good story to share.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): Yeah, I would, I would say.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): Greg, Amanda is a member of our staff who has
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): work directly with the new roots graduates going through the city planning process, and she has a lot of
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): more. Do you know her.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): Amanda?
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): Amanda Lind? All
Sarah Hofmeyer: great. Yeah, I went. I went through Cultivates website, and it was kind of like, oh, I feel like all of these people would have something interesting and different to talk about. So
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): yeah, it's true. But I think, yeah, I mean, it would be a good good next person I'm trying to think of.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): Let me think about it. I do need to run. I need to get over to a to this steering committee meeting.
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): But
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): yeah, if you want to send me the list of farmers you have, and I could flag some that I think would be good to talk to.
Sarah Hofmeyer: Absolutely. I can do that. Thank you so much for your time. I really appreciate it talking to you. But yeah, i'll let you get going. I don't want to make you like to something different
Ami Freeberg, Cultivate KC  (she/her): on your project, and i'm also.